Again, thank you. Welcome, everyone. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, everyone. Again, thank
you so much, everyone.
And again, I just want to thank everyone and members of the Vemasanbha Buddhist Center in Southern
Florida,
and as well as all the friends of the Vemasanbha Buddhist Center and the Dharma practices every
month,
to really activate this event and organize it. I'm so grateful and thankful and happy,
and we all want our hearts to be in this beautiful place. Again, with you all, and with the great
discussing of the Dharma,
according to my capability, and so thank you for this opportunity. Thank you, everyone. Thank you
very much.
This morning, then I'm going to talk about generally three yaanas. And those are known as the "Ker
abhara,"
or the "Kundalika of Buddhism," "Sappara Mahayana," and the "Vedayana of Buddhism."
Those are some of the top of this I thought I would talk over. That was the asking to discuss,
so I'm happy to talk about these things. So today what I'm going to do, I will talk about those
three yaanas.
I will be struggling with that. Then, as I talk about three yaanas, maybe about an hour, an hour,
or about two hours,
I will talk about those. And then we have some questions and answers. Answers, we have short break,
and after that, then come back, again, I will continue to talk. And then after I talk at the end
and the final,
I will discuss a little bit about the practicing of the Dharma. And even though you already know
and practice it,
but I would just like to, again, just highlight it and remind it to all of us how we do practices.
And the reason I'm talking about this, because generally in Buddhism, there are three ways that you
learn about the teachings.
Those are known as the "studying," "contrapletting," and the "practicing," or the "meditating."
So the first I'm going to talk about these three yaanas in a way, like kind of starting and
contemplating.
And then at the end, I talk a little bit about the practice, or the meditation, or the practice of
the day.
So those are my kind of like frame or the schedule, or what I will try to do there.
So now I will talk about the three yaanas. As a Inavadhyana Buddhism, in particular the Inma
Buddhism,
what the Inma Buddhism is mainly a high-light practice, focus on the practicing on the Vedayana
Buddhism.
That is what the Inma schools of the Devadhyana Buddhism does.
So generally, I think only the Devadhyana Buddhism is really the highlight of the Vedayana Buddhism
.
But particularly also in Inma is that we call in many, there's four Buddhist schools, principal
Buddhist schools, there are many soft schools too.
But those four schools are the Inma, Kaju, Satya, and Garo schools.
So we belong, so our belongs, we belong, of the Inma schools of the Devadhyana Buddhism.
In the Inma schools of the Veday Buddhism also highlight the Vedayana Buddhism, the practice of the
Vedayana Buddhism.
Vedayana Buddhism is translated into the Inna, I think, diamond wickers, diamond yanas, diamond
like yanas.
Oh, yana, diamond, ready is the diamond, and the yana is translated into the Inna, I think wickers,
wickers, so diamond wickers practices.
Diamond wickers practices, even though they focus on the Vedayana Buddhism, but they practice all
the Buddhism.
There is no Vedayana Buddhism without the condition Buddhism and the Satyamahayana Buddhism.
And they're all really connected, and the Vedayana practices all Buddhism.
What does that mean? That means the gracious teacher, Buddha Shatya Muni, reached enlightenment at
35.
And then his life spans according to his story about 81.
So over 45 years, the Buddha gave the teachings.
And all those teachings are divided by a second symbol which will create these vikas, yana
teachings.
Punditian Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, and Vedayana Buddhism. That's all Buddha taught.
What is the Buddha's teaching? The teaching of the Buddha is teaching on the nature, nature of the
subject, nature of the object, nothing but, that's it, nature.
Exactly where things are, but it does not give any mysteries or kind of anything there.
Nature is who shares that nature, who are and within the nature. We all, every living being are
equally within that nature.
There's nothing else. It's a selected group use the nature, and we don't even know.
Everyone is. Nature is equal to every living being.
For example, sun, and moon, and stars, and the air, and the earth, and the water, fire, all the
space, and all is shaped by everyone.
It's nothing really selected groups or anything.
Similarly, what Buddha taught, nature is shaped by everyone. We're within that.
And Buddha also, we have always a lot of difficult troubles in the samsara. We are going through so
many difficult troubles.
Even though there is good things, good times, and nice times, but yet, we are completely kind of
like, like, saturated with a lot of troubles, a lot of difficulties.
Going one after another. Why we are going through these troubles and difficulties?
Because not knowing the nature, or not recognizing one's own nature, and nature everything.
Then we are kind of struggling, really, our desire and the way things are happening is not just
coming together.
We are struggling because of not really using wisely, or applying, and mingling with the natures.
That is the problem, problematics, according to Buddhism. That is stunning.
This is the trouble when we don't use nature.
Whenever we use nature, and be in nature, a part of nature with the recognizations, then we're more
calm and peaceful, more open, and more relaxed.
That's what the gracious teacher, Buddha, called.
So for that reason, Buddha said, "He's nothing but a teacher. He's just really showing things, what
things are, how things are happening.
He's nothing, any mystery, people, or anything."
Buddha himself, highly and clearly announced, and so many times, he is just a simple teacher,
showing the way things are, exactly.
The way things are, both subject and object. That's about it.
Now when we talk with that understanding, that means all these three yanas, basic Buddhist, Pundit
ian Buddhist school,
Nusopram Mahayana school, and Vajrayana teaching, all is nothing but is nature.
It's exactly nature, where things are.
And again, as I said, nature is shared by everyone. There is nothing in any selected groups or
anything.
So if we say, "One now, when would I give those three dana teachings?"
How that happened, all those three different levels of teachings.
All the teachings are happened, and when he gave the teacher, when he reached the enlightenment age
35,
around age 42, he gave principally high teachings on the Punditian Buddhism.
Around age 43 to the age 72, he gave the teachings on, so mainly, highlight, mainly Sauta Mahayana
teachings.
Around age 73, until age 81 or 80, he gave highlight teachings of the Vajrayana teachings.
Or that just kind of a very gross level to explain.
It didn't mean that he did not give any other teachings, kind of completely struggling, divided
that one up.
That didn't mean that. He just highlighted it.
So now the positive teaching. What is positive teaching?
Positive teaching is teaching mainly under conduct, varieties, conduct or ethics.
Again, that did not mean he did not give any other teachings.
Vajrayana Buddhism, Buddhist teaching, often used for three principal practices.
Three principal practices, sometimes used three extraordinary training practices.
And what are those? Those are known as the morality practices, concentration practices,
and as well as wisdom practices.
Those three are the principal, heart of the entire Buddhism.
It doesn't matter if you are from the Punditian Buddhism school or Sauta Mahayana school
or the Vajrayana Buddhism, that these three are the heart, essence, frame, identity, nature of the
teaching.
Entire teachings. So post-Buddha highlight of the morality teachings.
And morality teaching is also when you Buddha highlight, it didn't mean that there is no
concentration,
there is no wisdom practice. It didn't mean that.
In the teaching, what are they saying?
The morality of the concentration, morality of the morality practice, teachings,
moralities of the concentration practices, moralities of the wisdom practices, practices.
This is all connected. And these teachings are what are known as, also in Buddhism.
Buddhism, many of you know of course, three pitakas or three pitakas or three basket teachings.
Three basket teachings are what are those, a prove you don't know.
Those three basket teachings are known as Vinaya teaching, Sautara teaching, Abhidharma teaching.
Vinaya, all this has to do with and what made Vinaya discipline teaching,
teachings on the disciplines, all these teachings on the calm and peaceful teachings.
And then Sautara teaching, condensed teachings, more condensed teachings.
What does that mean? All principles which get concentrated, concentrated, not skated,
not kind of like, kind of like all skated, all over, is all gathered, all concentrated,
concentrated.
What is Abhidharma? Abhidharma is Sanskrit word again.
Abhi means actualizing, openness.
Dhamma means phenomena, Abhidharma.
So actualizing with all the phenomena are, actualizing, all discovering with all the phenomena.
Dhamma is a generally Sanskrit word, it goes or uses the Sanskrit language about ten different
meanings.
But this time, it means phenomena.
Seeing everything, again if I translate it in another way, seeing exactly where all the phenomena
are.
That means nothing high stated and nothing lower stated.
Or sometimes I used to say, "Exaggerate it and deprecate it," if you know what that means.
Somebody told me they don't know what that means.
So then I'm stopping that statement all the time.
But I heard that before somebody told me, that's what means.
Highly stated, far from the way things are.
And also kind of low-stated, state of very low and far from the way things are.
So exaggerated and deprecated, those are mentioned.
But anyway, highly stated. So where is that in things are?
That's the Abhidharma teachings.
So then what these three are, always in the teachings, again those are what I said to you.
There will be more kind of explanation there.
But if you kind of a more simple way to tell.
Sutra teaching is the teachings mainly on the morality and so on.
Vinaya teaching is mainly on the morality teachings.
Sutra teaching is mainly on the concentration.
And Abhidharma is mainly on the resistance.
Vinaya says that again the same technique applied as I said earlier.
This morality teaching also has three.
Vinaya teaching has three meanings.
Vinaya of the discipline teaching, Vinaya teachings of the concentration of teaching,
and Vinaya of the wisdom teachings.
And Sutra teaching has also that three.
Sutra teaching of the discipline teaching, Sutra that has concentrated teaching,
Sutra that has wisdom teachings.
And Abhidharma has also the same thing.
Abhidharma teaching that has discipline teaching,
Abhidharma that has concentrated teaching, Abhidharma that has wisdom teachings.
So that is really the half form. That's what I call three pita kas.
Or three basket. Three basket is not just three individually basket.
It's a metaphor. It means it has like so many kind of like contains.
It has, it's like a tray box. You open one tray, your box, there is another tray.
There is another tray. There is another tray.
It's like Christmas gift package that you open.
Those are great, great parents. Great, great parents.
They put so many things together to give the surprise to their loved ones.
Same way here. But the presenters. So beautiful tray box.
All this exterior nature.
This is nothing, anything but nature.
This is not just kind of electrocuted or saturated or is unnatural. It's all really simple nature.
Exactly.
Exactly. That is what really this pita kavas teaches.
Now we will talk about this again.
The first yana, kundreja yanas.
Kundreja yanas is sometimes one name.
I'm not sometimes in Buddhism name.
Hindu yana teachings. Hindu yana.
But I'm using terminology as foundations.
Hindu yana, what is the terminology we use?
Hindu yana, foundation, first Buddhist school, it is the foundation.
Foundation of what?
It's the foundation of the sattva Mahayana.
It's the foundation of the vediyana Mahayana.
Without the hinyana or the foundation Buddhist school, Mahayana is not completed.
Vediyana is not completed.
And so therefore it is completely, those true are, are completely best up from this foundation
Buddhism or hinyana schools.
Hinyana. Hinyana is Sanskrit word again. What that means?
Small, weaker.
Hiny is small. Sometimes translated low.
Sometimes translated as beginning.
So beginning weaker.
Beginning weaker.
And that means it's just a foundation to start it, to start it.
Your journey of discovery of the nature's beauty.
We're natures, subject in object, ethics.
Sometimes we're interpreting kind of, sometimes the hinyana is low, weaker.
Something that Mahayana practice, Vediyana practice, should not apply.
It's not something completed. That is a must text.
According in Mahayana Buddhism, all the Vediyana Buddhism is a very complete must text.
We know that, we know the foundation Buddhism or the hinyana Buddhism.
We are completely incomplete, incomplete.
Now we talk about the foundation Buddhist schools.
The foundation Buddhist schools, when we explain about the foundation schools,
it has the, again, the conduct, concentration, and wisdom practices.
Conduct of the general practices is what in the teaching says.
Discipline.
Within our activities, our self is not disciplined or not gentle, not peaceful, not calm.
Because due to the emotions, negative emotions.
Negative emotions are not natural.
Natural, it is known as unnatural.
Who created these negative emotions? Nothing, but one's own self.
Where did negative emotions start? From our own mind.
Mind of the, in the teaching said, unknowing.
Unknowing. What that is unknowing? Rasping, clinging. Rasping and clinging of the one's own self.
That which is obtained in the Buddha teaching, named ego-clinging.
Clinging to our self. That is my self, I and my.
That clinging is, according to Buddha's teaching, is not natural.
That clinging. Why is it not natural?
When you look, trying to find what we cling in, there's really nothing to find.
There's nothing to find. No matter whatever technology we use, more in time, or ancient time,
use all the intelligence, discrimination, awareness of Muslims, analyzing, investigating, going
thoroughly.
What we cling to is really existing here. For example, such as I.
I is the big notion, so important for us. There's nothing more important than I.
We cling. And all those clingings of I, then comes mind. All mind. Mind. Mind. Mind.
And then when we come to mind, there is acceptance, there is rejection.
Acceptance of something that you can't desire, that, oh, it's mind, it's something important for me
.
And then also rejection, something that comes, oh, I don't like that. It's not mind.
I don't like, I hate. I'm that kind of rejection and acceptance.
That is challenging. Challengings.
So now, when we are talking about this important of our eyes, that such is important,
and the kind of suffering is important, and where is that I?
And then there's nothing really existing.
But true to this I, then all the emotions are erupting.
All kind of things are coming, and such as important things to accept
and rejection, or like to avoid the things, and then our activities become wired.
Undersplend. Activity become undersplendent.
Those are in a Buddha teaching named negative activities.
And particularly in this Canadian Buddhist school,
they are trying to avoid the negative activities of those undersplendent activities.
Immediately checking care of them. Immediately deal with them.
And what are those immediate or those negative activities of the physical and verbal negative
activities?
Those are known as the seven things to avoid negative activities.
Mainly is connected with the body, physical and verbal.
That's what then Buddha gives the morality. It's called the morality practices.
For example, for being at the practitioners in Buddhism, those are known as what?
They are practitioners. They are practitioners. And there is order in the practitioners.
They are practitioners, also there is generally this in the Buddha teaching called vows.
The V-O-W-O, vows. This vows has two vows.
Short-term vows and long-term vows.
Short-term vows is 24 hours to taking vows for 24 hours.
Long-term vows is then entire our lives as long as we live. We take vows.
Those are known as the short-term vows and the long-term vows.
In the vows, you are trying to reduce, or to stop these seven negative activities.
That three ayah by voting and four by speech. Seven things to Egypt.
And first I talk a little bit again, talk about these short-term vows.
Those are these vows as many of you know, the Nuni practices.
Nuni practices are short-term vows.
For example, 24 hours or they start, the great master or great female enlightenment nun,
known as Genomakamum, has traditionally is like two days. So that means 24 hours, two times.
So even though it's two days, 24 hours, two times is short-term vows.
Once you keep that vows, those are known as the S-principle vows that you keep.
Lord S-principals are three by the voting and four by the verbal speech.
And that is known as then three by the voting is not taking lives and not taking the belongings of
others and sexual misconducts.
Those are the three by the voting. Four by the speeches are known as then.
Four by the speeches are known as then, not using the deceiving languages or symbolic from lying,
selenal and heart speech and then gossips. Those four are speeches. All togani is seven.
Seven. Seven those are seven basic vows.
Above that, one vow is not intoxicating. So avoiding the intoxicating things.
And then, in the Ghethamamapamos teaching, then there is editing, few more and those are known as
then,
not singing, not dancing, not playing the music and not back up and using the performance.
And also not eating the afternoon foods. And in the Ghethamamapamos teaching, again, you don't eat
for two days.
So those are all vowels are known as short time vowels.
Anybody who take that forever, and that is known as then the syllabacy, syllabacy of askas, all
their practices.
And then you take that for forever. Then, so that is a short time vowel.
And then you take that to forever is called syllabacy of askas. Still is the lebras in syllabacy of
askas.
Every you take, and then for permanent vowels, permanent vowels, they are known as then opaskas,
and novice monks and nuns,
and fully ordained monks and nuns. Those are three groups, two groups.
And opaska is a lay practice. They take five persons, five vowels, and those are four, four of
these is,
and not, what's called, that three by the voting, three by, not killing, not stealing, and sexual
misconduct.
Three, and four is, fourth is not lying. Lying, did I say mister, mister?
One more. One more, right? So that is four, above that is not toxicating.
Those are known as five persons, five persons, and so that, then it goes on, those are the, that is
like male and female,
female, so opaska, lay practice in the male, and female would take that vowels.
So those are the basic principle vowels or the moralities and disciplinaries of the lay
practitioners, lay practitioners.
One they take these vowels, generally they tell about the practitioner or the Canadian Buddhist
schools, what is this?
And naturally, they are what in the teachings, they should always, always more content, more
content, more content and less desire, less craving, less craving, craving.
Doba chungma means less craving, more content, more content and less, less craving.
What are the current, the energy requirements?
The six or five pleasure objects, six or five pleasure objects.
Those are the pleasure objects of eyes, pleasure objects of the ears, pleasure objects of the nose,
pleasure objects of the tones, pleasure objects of the body.
Those are five sensory pleasure objects of senses.
Above that, five pleasure objects of the feelings or the mental states.
Mental states.
So those are known as all six pleasure objects.
So let's criving, criving on that.
Generally in the teachings, when you are less criving, criving, then what becomes? More content.
More content becomes.
So what do you have? Enjoy and appreciate. More grateful of what you have.
So that means, that happens. Naturally it comes. More calm and more peaceful. Less constructions.
And you are more central.
What that will bring you up, according in the teachings, it will bring more mindfulness. More calm
and peaceful.
Your mind is become more really thoughtful. More respectful and appreciative. Generally the content
ment and less criving is very grip of mind from the states.
It is mindful. It's really that.
You can more enjoy what you have. More grateful. More grateful.
And then, what in the teachings said? In the Paravada or the Puneja Buddhist schools, then they do
practice.
Now, when you have the good discipline, then they begin to practice.
Practicing is concentration. Concentration is then meditating.
Meditating. Meditating suggests positive begins mindfulness meditations.
Those are known as then joy and appreciation. Respect and joy and appreciation to one's own
situation and circumstances.
Really more appreciative. More grateful. More thankful. That is the beginning of the mindfulness.
With these thoughts, they also see things. All these situations and circumstances in the world. It
's changing. It's a movement.
There's nothing. It's a empowerment. So reflecting the empowerment.
More reflecting of the empowerment. Thinking, that empowerment.
And more reflecting the empowerment and also you begin to more thankful, more grateful your
situation and circumstances, life, and every opportunity.
Every soul and body are surrounded. More happy. More joyful.
Those are known as mindfulness practices.
When you begin that mindfulness practices, and then in the Puneja Buddhist schools, what do you do?
Shammata meditation. Shammata practices.
Mindfulness is the igniting of our calm and peaceful qualities.
But once you got there, then you begin to do that. Shammata meditation.
Shammata is the sound of the world at the many of your origins. Know that. It means calm and
peaceful.
Dividing calm and peaceful status.
In order to begin that, to do that, all those Shammata meditation practices, such as breathing, med
itating on the breathing.
Breathing, calm, again, peaceful way, and relaxing, moving your mind with more peaceful way, more
calm, and following the breathing.
Following the breathing. That is known as the Shammata meditation.
All the symbols concentrated in your mind, with some certain objects, meditation objects.
Relaxing and focusing as long as you can.
Relaxing. And then also see, kind of concentrated in our bodies.
Bodies is all in a Kaman meditation, in a Puneja Buddhist school, also tell all that this body is
not just one solid object.
There are so many things in the body.
All the different, like, limbs in the part of the body, so many things, you concentrate on that.
All those are come through the joint now, so kind of nicely beautiful, but they are also almost
every, every second, not just almost, every second is really changing, moving.
There's nothing is really, stays forever. Moving that.
So that externally, the universe is moving and changing completely, but even our physical system is
changing and moving that.
And concentrate on those, more relaxed, calm, peaceful ways.
Even our breathing is changing.
Every movement, breathing is one after another, not just saying breathe.
We breathe every maybe second or whatever.
Again, breathe. But yet, we are perfectly, beautifully enjoying, existing and leaving.
And with again, joy and appreciation, calm and relaxedness.
When you do these practices with that way, what in the teaching says?
It will bring more detachment, more calm.
It will loosen our grasping, clinginess.
We begin to see the way the universe and the world are existing, are really existing.
That is seeing exactly the way things are, according to the teaching, that is Abhidharma.
Seeing exactly the things as it is, not we call it up there.
Call it up there. Seeing the way things are, exactly.
You have seen something that we before never saw, or we would never pay attention.
Now we are finding out where things are.
And for that reason, then also in the teaching says, be more grateful, more happy, more joy.
Really, everything is in our control and in our table. How wonderful, how beautiful.
At the same time, the teaching always told, there is some review of courage and commitment,
that I will use this beautiful opportunity, this fragile and kind of illusory,
this opportunity to bring more good things for myself, for others.
Kind of feel that, relax and calm with that.
Calm with that.
And then in the teaching says, also come out of meditations,
such as in Protestant Buddhist schools.
You have, again, different emotions, such as our negative emotions making,
not letting us to stay calm and peaceful.
And what are those negative emotions?
Anger, gallows, ignorance, attachments.
Those troubles, again, it makes more our suffering, unrest for students.
When you see those kind of difficult, those highlight emotions in the teaching says,
for example, when you have more attachment problems,
then see all these borders are changing, all the situation is changing.
Why I'm so attached?
Why I'm not so attached?
I just move along as it is.
Not attracting me, how the nature of attraction is, it don't like to change,
it like to be exactly the same as it is.
That is just our only ignorance.
This is not abhidharma, everything that, that is un-abhidharma.
And we see things are, exactly the way things are kind of along with,
moving along with that open mind and open heart.
That is the abhidharma.
That is truly we see things are as it is.
So for that reason, when we are so attached, meditating,
or recognizing the highlight of things are changing.
Not things are changing outside subject, object is changing,
but subject is changing.
Our mental state, how much things change.
Since we have the memory, until now, it's always changed,
even in our own memory.
Our physical is changing, our situation is changed,
our circumstances are surrounded, and all those are really changing.
Therefore, kind of bring more open heart, open realization.
That is known as, in the teachings said, meditating on the detachment.
When we are so attracted, discovering the way things are,
be in the way things are.
Aren't they?
And then we have negative emotions, such as negative emotions or anger.
In the teachings said, loving kindness and compassion.
Even in the contemporary Buddhist school, even they don't highlight
loving kindness and compassion, but in the teachings said, meditating on the love.
Compassion, bring more love.
What is love actually?
In the teachings said, love means beautiful.
Love means so nice.
All these things are existing.
All these subject and all these, without this all,
all these subject and all object, we won't be happy.
Because of existing, everyone, others, we are really very happy.
It's good for us.
This is good learning places, places.
And then in the Mahayana Buddhism, what is it?
As whatever we desire, they desire too, same way.
So why are we so upset and angry with that?
And then also what we did, some mistakes, whatever, is due to their ignorance.
It's not the intention they lack, they bond with that bad,
but this is due to ignorance.
Their negative emotions are disturbing to their mental state
and then doing something.
So why should I be angry with that?
If I am angry, I should be angry with ignorance.
Not to that physical, to that person or to that individual.
In order to do that, and anger to the ignorance,
we cannot defeat anger with anger.
We have to be more wise, smart way and meditate on the loving kindness.
That well-defeated help today enough.
Those are really in achieving state.
So that is more meditating on the love when we have the anger problems.
And when we have more, again, same way, jealous problems.
When we have a jealous problem, same way of loving kindness
and joy and appreciation, very more joy and more appreciation
and more love and kindness and less grasping, less cling,
to also other inner teachings.
Then when you have more troubles with all the business of thought,
our mind cannot rest with that.
That's the teaching, meditating on the breathing, breathing.
That's the concentrate on the very breathing,
well-help, consumption to a calm and peaceful state.
So those are non-meditation state of beliefs.
And then, in the Indonesian Buddhist schools,
what are the, you know, when you practice the Vedayana Buddhism,
when you practice such as the Mundo practices,
what are the foundation practices?
What are known as poor renal sessions and taking reference?
Those are foundation Buddhist schools, teachings.
Poor renal sessions suggest then that the precious bodies,
or precious lives.
And suggest then, next one is impermanent.
Next one is, is known as cause and effort, the inevitable.
And the fourth one is that samsara has difficulty and troubles.
Those are known as poor renal sessions, poor renal sessions.
And that is the foundation Buddhist school, teachers.
These teachings are known as in the Buddha's teaching,
in the Buddha's first teaching for them, poor novelty of the teachings.
Suffering truths, cause of suffering truths.
This poor, renounced like a poor,
is the condensed essence, teachings of the first two truths,
suffering truths and the cause of suffering truths.
Then taking reference, and that is following the path,
path to truth, taking reference.
And suggest we target with the reference,
and then doing all those Shammata meditation and practice as seen.
Mindfulness, all those are known as path to truth, path to truth.
So with all these teachings, there is no Mahayana Buddhism
and no Vadiyana Buddhism or poor renal sessions and ruffled practices.
So that is really how important of these foundation Buddhist schools are.
It's all the Mahayana Buddhism or certain Mahayana Buddhism
and the Vadiyana Buddhism.
Buddhism is completely based upon the foundation Buddhist schools.
That's how it is developed.
So that is what is really about the foundation Buddhist schools.
Now we move to the second Buddhism.
And that is the Mahayana Buddhism.
And now, oh maybe I will do.
Have you had some questions about this foundation Buddhist schools?
Yes.
Have you?
We have some microphones coming around.
Yes, please.
Thank you.
Good morning, thank you for having us.
I have to preface the question with a brief little intro here.
As a person of Irish existence, I am prepared to be somewhat disappointed by your answer here.
Either way.
So here's the question I have.
The prohibition against intoxication.
[laughter]
So here's the question.
Is the prohibition against the use of any intoxicant?
Or is the prohibition against becoming intoxicating?
[laughter]
Fully prepared to be somewhat disappointed with your answer.
I'm trying to do every of my capabilities to not be disappointed.
[laughter]
So all of you do that since we are the practicing of all three jhanas.
We are practicing of the Puerto Rican Buddhism schools.
Puerto Rican Buddhism.
We are practicing of the Suttur Mahayana.
We are practicing of the Vayayana Mahayana.
So therefore there is some room.
[laughter]
According to the Puerto Rican Buddhism teaching,
there is no room to drink at all.
And you take the vowels, not at all room to drink.
And the teaching says you should not drink or use any intoxicant.
Even the drop of the grass or tip of grass or dew of grass.
Dew of grass.
That's really in the Puerto Rican Buddhist school teaching set.
I will tell the story.
I will tell the stories.
This is a very famous arhata known as lemon.
And during the Buddha's time, lemon was born,
I mean, the very wealthy family in India.
And these wealthy families are looking to help.
I'm sure maybe a few of you heard this story.
I said quite a few times.
But this wealthy family is really looking to help child.
But this couple did not have child, so long time.
They did every method, everything what the spiritual masters and instructions asked to do.
They did everything and didn't, the lady didn't consume it.
And they did so kind of unhappy that so all their wealth and everything,
who will keep their lineage and wealth and all that things.
But finally, lady was conceived.
And because immediately she understood that she is now brachnad or conceived,
and that she impromptu her husband.
And that day, the family has very tragedies.
Big things happened.
Bad things happened through father, business and all that things.
So the moment that happened, but the moment those things happened,
that moment he heard, "Oh, now his wife is conceived."
So it was so happy.
Even though many things happened,
but I'm so happy that news, news, welcomed that news.
He said, and he, so that's what.
Then, says he was, he's conceived,
the family got one after another tragedies, one after another tragedies.
So now the child was born, and he was born.
So says father, the moment he heard that news,
he said, "Oh, this is welcome news."
So then they think of now, share was born, what they give the names.
We will give the name, him, welcome.
Welcome.
So his name was, welcome baby.
Now welcome baby, when he was born,
again many tragedy things happened in the family.
And soon after, the boy fell and died.
Now boy, but the welcome boy, baby must have come and become alone,
or no one who's, no one is really looking.
And one after another tragedy, and they're lucky with all that,
all that, and so then they're close, the family, the relatives are kept.
They also, the moment they kept looking after that baby,
and again they had so many tragedies.
One after another, then the teaching said.
So soon after the relatives said,
"Oh, this is not welcome, baby. This is an unwelcome baby."
So they named unwelcome baby.
So now really the relatives are all so upset,
and then they have tried to do one after another,
and then they finally, they kicked out.
"We don't want to keep this one."
So now he looks like grown up maybe,
about maybe six, seven, eight years old, around that.
So now they've kicked it out, and he's completely lost,
and he don't have any place to go.
He's sitting on the road.
He's staying on the road, and he's just so unhappy, happy that.
At that time, then Buddha is, I mean Buddha,
we can't see all that situation, and the Buddha changed the route, direction.
Usually we go to the city for the food with his students,
but that day Buddha changed the route.
He said to all the students, "We're going this way."
So he went to a slightly different route.
On the road, this boy is staying,
staying and crying.
And the moment he saw the Buddha kind of feel that he come
and face all those students, he found that he's crying.
So why are you crying? All these things are asked.
Because I have no place to go, and relatives kicked out,
the parents died, and all those things.
So then he said, "Why do you not come with us?"
And, of course, then he joined.
So he went with a poet after the Buddha and his students,
and then he received a nice lunch,
the family of others, whoever is invited.
Maybe he's another product of his big dharmapetra.
And while he got the food,
and then he became a novice monk.
He started.
So gradually, I mean a short, long story,
then he received more teaching in the practice.
He meditated in the practices.
Practices meditated, and he really become the ahadas.
He becomes our ahadas.
He reached high below there.
So now, even though he become the ahadas and big realizations,
and no one is kind of respecting him much.
Everybody is kind of ignoring him there.
And the Buddha thought, "This is not right, not right."
Such as even though he has all those tragedies,
but now he is really ahadas.
Who do these things?
They are making kind of bad marriage, or bad karma.
So Buddha like to highlight him.
Highlight him there.
Highlight him.
And so, highlight.
At that time, in the far village somewhere,
far from the village, Saraswara, there is one village.
They have a lot of trouble all the time with nagas.
They have so many trouble.
That is one nagas.
They are so short-templed, temperamental,
and they are making so much trouble all the time.
This naga is making trouble.
So the villages did so many things.
Whatever they do, they are always not right.
They are making so much trouble, this naga.
So then the villages came to Buddha and asked,
"Please, will you subdue and help to our village
to subdue that naga?"
So Buddha said, "Yes," but at the same time,
Buddha kind of looked along with all the Sangha members.
He looked to this not welcome, the ahadas.
He looked to him kind of strongly.
Immediately grew up.
That one who was, I mean, he also looked to the Buddha.
He is nada.
He sees what Buddha wants him.
So what one wants him.
And in the teaching, when the Buddha is teaching,
when the Buddha is more kind of democratic,
if you like to accept that imitation,
then they will bring kind of strength,
because the strength of the morality,
the strength of the morality,
anybody like to do that,
to kind of activate and perform that,
they pick up the stone.
I'm sorry, not stick.
They will pick up the sticks.
So Buddha in the teaching said,
"He executed his arms as an elephant thrown
and picked up one stick."
That's straight.
"Among the grew sticks."
Everybody thought, "Wow, what he's doing?"
He don't know what he's doing now.
Now he's just picking up that.
And he picked it up.
Then, of course, the Buddha did not say anything.
When he picked up, the Buddha said,
"Welcome," and that's it.
So next day, now he accepted,
he's going to take care of that naga.
So the woman went to the city and had the food.
He burned the food in a begging arms bowl.
Then he went to that village.
And particularly the village said,
"You said there's one spring."
Spring.
Yeah, spring.
Well, that is a naga place.
He stays there.
That naga place.
So he went there, that area,
and he sat down so peacefully, quietly, that happened.
When naga saw that, he said,
"Naga saw that."
The naga thought,
"Oh, this is really kind of like a strange, wondering moment.
He don't know how awful I am," he thought.
But he is the England,
so he's going to need that just alone.
So he sits there, nearby there,
and he eats the food, begging the bowl.
He gets up nicely, gently,
and went to that spring.
And then he whined his bowl,
his bowl in that spring,
and naga was really upset.
According to this in India,
and particularly in the teachings,
the naga don't like in his left arm.
It remains.
It's really not happy.
So he whined his arm's bowl,
and what was it called?
The dirty water or whatever the arm.
He pulled back to that spring water.
At that moment, naga was so angry,
and he jumped up in the sky,
he met big thunderstorms.
And he put the thunderbolt to the loom.
And loom went back to the spot where he stood,
and he meditated on the lowing kinds.
Lowing kinds.
That didn't do anything,
or those thunderbolt nothing affected that other loom.
And now, kind of the naga,
that is desperate for what to do.
At that moment, loom emanated big,
higher rain, higher rain,
and that completely kind of blocked the naga,
that naga, and he couldn't go anywhere, naga.
And finally, he came to naga,
that naga thing, or naga, the loom,
and said, "Why are you making me trouble?
"What reason I did?
"What I did?" he said.
And loom said, "Because you didn't do anything to me,
"but you're doing disturbing all these villages,
"because that's what I'm going to make gentle in people."
So then he said, "Yes, I will listen.
"What do you want to do?"
He said, "No, you don't have to do anything to me,
"and you must take that commitment to be my teacher.
"Teacher, which means Buddha."
So then in the teaching he said that naga becomes small snake,
and loom put in his begging bowl that snake,
he went to the shalasta, get up and grow,
with that naga in the begging bowl,
and put on the Buddha,
and then naga takes a while that he's not going to be disturbed
to the villages.
So then that's happened.
And now, the loom, that not welcome,
become back to his normal name, loom,
who welcome, and it becomes so kind of quite famous.
Wow, he got such a realization.
He's the greatest.
You're the naga, and this really become very kind of honored ones.
He become honored ones.
And then one day, this honored one
went to the, kind of separately to him,
placed it because of the food.
I mean, midday they take only one kind of food.
So he went in the different villages,
and where his old friend, his family friend,
he was there.
And so he went there, and there also this old friend
who his family's friend, family friend, old friend,
very happy.
Now, this loom has become so special,
highly realized beings,
and he so do the naga in that villages,
and he's so happy.
So then he kind of feel happy,
and then he offered him the lunch, and he had lunch,
and that time, Buddha did not made any rules
about the alcohols or the toxicating things.
So then this family friend offered him the alcohol,
alcohol drinks.
So then he drank the alcohols.
Now he drank, he drank, and drank, and drank.
He's really toxicating, really intoxicated.
So now after he completed his food and all that things,
then our loom is walking back to the ashram
or to the hermitage where he's going to sleep.
I'm with Sharva Sadaq.
On the road where he's walking, he couldn't walk.
He fell down.
He fell down with that, and he fell asleep.
He fell asleep there.
What?
He fell asleep.
He fell asleep there.
At that time, again, Buddha is walking to the city
and coming, and Buddha changed the route,
and he announced that we were going to meet with.
So well, well, Buddha is walking with his Sangha members,
and every Sangha member saw one of their students
that were in the row, and who was fell down
on the street and falsely sleeping.
And when they came to closely, it was in the room.
He was in the room.
And Buddha said, "Who is he?
He's this our room."
And then Buddha said, "You think so?
Now he can subdue the Naga?"
"Naga, he can subdue."
And every student said, "No, I don't.
He can subdue the, don't mention the Naga,
but even he can't do anything with the small insect,
or small insect."
And why is that happening?
Because of the toxicating.
That's it.
That's what happens.
So put that on, then Buddha gives the rules.
They're not really toxicating.
Even the tip of the blade of the grass,
or dew of grass, they should not do it.
Should not toxicate it.
So that is the rule in the Vinaya,
or in the foundation Buddhist schools.
And then Mahayana schools.
Schools, their app is important, important,
and as necessary, you can have little bit, little bit,
but not lost your mindfulness.
Why, why, why Buddha give this teaching in the Vinayam,
or the Thera, Prigabuddha school?
Because my, the toxicating things will lose the mindfulness.
Even this great aha land that lost the mindfulness,
completely fell down.
So it really will need numerous obstacles and hindrance
to in the life and the practices.
So that's why that.
So in Mahayana, in the teaching field,
then after as long as you're not lost with the mindfulness,
then you can have little bit, little bit.
And the Vaidyana Buddhism is the same thing.
It has Mahayana, you can have little bit,
but again, not lost control.
And then good practice of the Mahayana or the Vaidyana Buddhism,
there's many stories of the great yogis, of the yoginis.
They really consume the big content of the alcohols and all that,
and still they're nothing effect with their realization
and their power of the spiritual qualities,
they're kind of shining, blended as a billion sun.
Sun, there's many stories of those in the Vaidyana teaching.
But still, I have not drew too much until I lost that mindfulness.
So that is my answer.
[laughter]
[applause]
Yes, yes, yes.
Yes, building on Bob's question.
[laughter]
My assumption is that when it says intoxicants,
it means any intoxicants.
I mean, I know you spoke about alcohol,
and the context was alcohol,
but I would think that it would apply to any kind of drug,
anything whatsoever that would cloud and obscure your mind, right?
That's really true.
Okay, thank you.
That's it.
Because it is like what we're talking of the primary goal,
primary goal and principle teaching of this,
the alcohol is really in the teaching,
it's the mindfulness.
If we lose the mindfulness, then anything is like,
and should not, should eliminate it.
Eliminate it, yeah.
Yes, yes, please.
[inaudible]
So we're so grateful for your teaching.
So, so grateful to be honored by you.
Thank you.
Just wanted to ask you, in America we have a great tradition
of singing and dancing for many different reasons.
Singing in churches and temples and synagogues,
and for the joy of God.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And singing in romantic ways to encourage people
to meet partners and to get married and help families.
And it's innocent, they can be innocent,
then there can be singing that's not so innocent.
But if it's innocent and from the heart, is that okay?
Dancing and singing, that is of that nature.
Is that okay?
Yeah, this is again, in a pedestrian Buddhist school,
if you take the ordinations, if you take the vows,
then really the teaching said, should not do.
That is the pedestrian Buddhist school.
Again, same thing.
There is many again, because Buddha made so many of those,
all these guidelines, because even this happened
during his lifetime, and Buddha said,
then no, no, that's what really is all happening.
So if the pedestrian Buddhist school,
singing and dancing are then just really kind of restricted.
Then again, as the same answer, in Mahayana Buddhism
and Vaidyana Buddhism, then definitely you can do those efforts.
If you have the reason, reason and the big purpose,
you can do, but again singing and dancing.
So generally, why in the Vaidyana or in Mahayana Buddhism,
also teaching says, you should not do,
because F is distracting too much.
If it's distracting too much, your principle goal,
or the practitioner's principle goal,
is to restrain it, reactivate it, our inner realization,
our realization of loving kindness, compassion,
and understanding of the true nature,
and those we do too many times, then you kind of distract it,
and then it will lead, that will also,
numerous kind of troubles and distractions,
and then kind of emotions arise with that one after another,
so that for those reasons, then, and kind of also,
you should do moderation and with mindfulness, those are said.
But if you have big reasons and then kind of big goals,
then of course you can do, and Vaidyana teaching often also said,
you can do that with, again, with awareness, with awareness.
Awareness with the same thing and dancing,
then it is good because you're not losing your awareness,
your realization, and keep expressing those, your inner realization,
and then it is good because not just for you,
according to Vaidyana teaching, the whole universe is dancing.
Now, really, the whole thing is dancing,
dancing and singing and there's nothing,
it's not singing and not dancing, it's all moving so beautifully,
perfectly, balancely, it's just really creating the dynamic display
of the universe and beauty, sun and moon and star,
and everything is just shimmering and lightning,
those are the teachings, but with awareness.
So poetic, so beautiful. Thank you so much.
Thank you.
I have a question about this.
I was one of those kids that was born in India.
Was it because of his karma that he went through so much drama
and taking birth with this wealthy family?
Yeah, because it is really, according to teaching,
the Buddha teaching is his karma,
his karma and karma of the family, karma of the hand,
so it's not something that happened by himself.
But it's a past life karma.
Past life karma, not this life, past life karmas.
Yeah, past life karmas.
But he went through a lot of drama.
Yeah, he really went, he went a lot of drama,
but also the end, himself ending was really good,
according to the Buddha teaching, he got realization
that was also a benefit to all the connected ones,
the family of parents, everyone really was a benefit.
But he wasn't asked to come into the world,
he came in because of his parents.
Yeah, that's true. So it's karma,
all the karmas of everyone according to teaching them.
But then, first of all, also he is the karma,
then he lost the parents,
then he didn't have anyone looking after him very nicely,
and then the relatives are looking, but also those all.
So his whole teaching is really karma,
and in the Buddha teaching often he said,
the karma where things happen is also really,
kind of, very inconceivable,
just that you can't answer everything easily.
But it is not happening without any cause and conditions.
And by his parents wanting children,
they wanted a kid so that they can be happy,
but that didn't mean that they would have been happy,
it made them miserable, and they went through a lot of drama.
They didn't get to enjoy it, so it means that if we want things,
sometimes it's not meant for us, and we shouldn't want things,
because we came with nothing, we go with nothing.
So maybe we're better off with nothing.
Yeah, that's true.
And that's what I see as being, that's what it would end up being,
because if we have nothing, we come with nothing,
we would not have all this drama and karma,
by not wanting children.
I have no kids because I felt like if they have to,
they come straight from heaven, so I wouldn't want,
because I'm not taking the drama of even taking care of kids.
So I'd be like, I'm free, I am free from that,
but I always told that you can even have luck
kids or bad luck.
It can bring in bad karma, good karma,
because you bring in a soul, and you don't know
where the soul is coming from, a bad karma, a good karma.
So it's a toy, it's a very good toy.
Thank you so much.
Oh, you're welcome.
Can you feel all this?
Oh yeah, karma, karma.
Thank you.
And thank you for the lovely story.
And I'm very happy that we are part of the Mahayana.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]
And back to that question.
I wanted to share with my Irish friends.
Thank you, Ben.
And I wanted to share, Kimpo, that there
is a group of monks that make beer.
And the beer is called Shimei.
And they were asked to produce more beer,
because it's a very fine beer.
[LAUGHTER]
And the monks said, we do not exist.
We do not-- let me get it right.
Oh, we do not exist to make beer.
We make beer to exist.
[LAUGHTER]
So I just wanted to put that out, Bob.
And I think we may be able to have the middle way, Kimpo.
A little bit of beer together.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you, Kimpo.
Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
It's called--
[INAUDIBLE]
I'll buy it.
I'll buy it for you.
Shimei.
Oh, God.
Thank you, Kimpo.
[LAUGHTER]
Pete?
Right there?
Pete.
[LAUGHTER]
It's very easy.
[INAUDIBLE]
Yeah, thanks.
And thanks for coming here today.
I wonder if you know how minding it is when you are here
and speak to us like this.
Excuse me.
But anyway, I have actually a true life story, something that
happened to me just within like the past year.
And I'm hoping your explanation or answers too can help clear
the question about how to develop that state of mind
or how exactly that's our state of mind should be so we lose
all of that stress and negative emotion.
The story goes a little over a year ago--excuse me.
I was brought into a relationship with this person.
Yes, this woman and I questioned it from the first time.
I had nothing to do with it.
It just kind of came out of the blue really.
Whether technology is a curse to the world or not is irrelevant,
I guess.
And I'm not sure of the fact that she was very sick.
This woman is also irrelevant or not even.
But she came on to me and basically I had accused her of
having some kind of motive, ulterior motive for just wanting
to be involved with me.
I had my theories, of course, but that's also irrelevant.
Anyhow, I just right from the beginning started to accuse her
and say I don't want any part of it.
And I accused her of having motives.
Of course, it was my ego.
I had this instinct.
No one's got better instincts than me.
Everybody has to tell me about it.
Everyone who knows me probably can talk about it.
I mean, according to me, of course, it's my ego.
Every day I just kept accusing her.
She's got some kind of motive or whatnot.
But anyhow, I know it was a test for me.
I handled it better than I would have like many years ago.
And I know that a more advanced practitioner would have handled
it a lot better.
From my point of view, where do we get the state of mind?
What state of mind should we have that would just lose
all of our ego and just kind of let it happen?
Do you follow what I'm saying?
I think so.
[laughter]
I think, yeah, then I understand.
So, yeah?
Thank you.
If I can get my point across, what's your explanation?
It's more about how we develop that state of mind
or what comes first, the wanting to develop the state of mind,
the losing of the ego.
And that is generally how to take care of this kind of situation.
And most of the time, according to Buddhism point of view,
first is always as much as you can, more open mind.
Open mind is really very, very important, kind of openness.
That means openness of not just you or I want this way.
I want that way.
If you have that thought, you're not so open
because you're kind of regulating where things are.
So first of all, your openness mind, that whatever comes,
I'm going to accept that situation then.
So that means your mind or your heart is a little bit more calm
and peaceful, more open.
With that thought, then you deal the situation with it again,
with the courage, with the commitment of your loving kindness
and compassion, and deal with that situation.
Again, with the understanding of that person.
For example, the other person is a person too.
They have also desire, they have emotion, they have thought.
So trying to kind of cooperate, which suits you both nicely
and comfortably, and maybe accepting something,
you will accept that other persons are also thinking and desire that.
And also, other ones do the same way.
And then kind of mutual understanding, mutual agreement,
more calm and peaceful.
But bring both sides, the more loving kindness and compassion,
same time with open heart and open mind.
I think that's what really most the time in the teaching mentioned that.
I understand that.
Thank you.
That also seems to me from what you said, that takes into play the fact
that we aren't perfect and we can't be perfect.
I don't know how much I have.
And our heart would be perfect and we would be able to be completely open.
Like I said, I did my best for the whole situation
and I know it's going to be the hardest test I've probably ever faced.
But if you can handle that, even though it's difficult and hard,
you said that if you were able to do it and you did that,
you should feel happy in joy.
You did good.
That means you're really in courage in your reward,
your courage and your love and compassion.
It's very difficult to deal with this situation.
And somebody of course also really is helping to the other partners
and helping to support that.
We teach you to feel happy and joyful.
At the same time, keep that kind of open heart and open mind
and really rest them in compassion.
Then help and support and reactivate,
which is good for you and good for the other partner.
And there is also according to Buddhism that is practicing.
You're doing good things, that is practicing.
We're not going to do immediately right things
and everything, every way good and things.
But every improve, we're doing good.
That means you're advancing, you're deepening,
and which is as you're revealing your goodness, call it.
From the only edge of the mind, then that is according to Buddhism.
You're practicing, you're good.
Thank you.
That was basically what I was looking at.
I mean, what I understood is what I'm saying.
I mean, I did the best I could.
I guess one of the real greatest that we can't be 100 percent.
I really took practice if it happened again.
I would have learned a lot.
But always the sense of a practicing is always trying to activate it
a little bit stronger, a little bit deeper,
a little bit wider as much as you can.
That is the practicing.
That is the learning, and that is your advancing according.
But that's not how we go.
We develop ourselves.
Really or really, we deepen ourselves.
Not just immediately stop, oh, that's too much, this and that.
Then we become kind of small mind, and we close ourselves,
which is not, then we really won't progress, or we won't do that too much.
Thank you.
Okay.
Yes, yes, thank you.
Yeah.
Please, yeah.
I am humbled and honored to be in your presence.
Thank you for being here.
Of course I understand that detaching is the main tenet of Buddhism,
but I have to ask you how to remain and stay in the place of detachment
when someone that you love is suffering terribly
and you have no ability to create change or help them,
and you literally have to watch severe suffering.
So vis-a-vis, you know, the infinity, that's all on one side of the infinity,
and I'm supposed to, because I do meditate very much so,
I do practice mindfulness.
But to detach and almost observe or bear witness to suffering
when you have no input and to remain detached is my problem.
Generally it is true, Buddhism is really always teaching on the detachment,
detachment, a lot of teachings on the detachment.
But why is Buddhism talking detachment?
Because nature is not attached, nature is not detached.
But present times we do more attached to reverse that,
to loosen up that Buddha's teaching on the detachments.
But this detachment is not, detachment is talking about not too much emotions.
Otherwise, Buddhism talks so much, so much,
or strongly emphasizes of loving kindness and comparison,
good things to every living being.
That is also, in a way, it is attachment.
It is not detachment, you're really explaining, you're promoting,
you're finally focusing kindness and compassion and love and peace
and happiness to every living being.
It is like, have some degree of the attachment,
but it's not negative emotions.
This time when you talk in love and compassion,
Buddhism is open, calm, peaceful, peaceful, soothing.
When you see these pupils who are having this kind of trouble,
difficult things, when you cannot do anything,
why didn't the Buddha teach it?
You send more love, more compassion, really weak,
that is, I'm going to talk this after this.
The poor, boneless, I'm sure you heard loving kindness, such a boneless love,
boneless compassion, really immersing love and compassion.
Seeing this individual, that individual is,
and there's not just only that one, there's so many beings in the world.
So really weak, good things, and then do some prayers
and your, whatever your beliefs, and really blessing,
and all that power sent to that, to that individual.
That is, you see how much you can do love,
but not truly negative emotion, not so,
I mean, emotion is not negative, but not true emotion,
kind of think of all this, but just more calm and peaceful,
really open your, again, heart and mind and love and compassion,
and just wishing good things, this, this, this,
that individual is going through this,
but by this, make this completely exhausted,
all that can, whatever the cause and condition,
on the other word, in the Buddha teaches the karma,
complete in the financial, make this kind of trouble,
the difficult never happened to any individual,
that finished by my power of the meditation,
my power and intention on the love and compassion,
really reaching the, send the big healing power of your mental,
to power of the mind, healing power,
to that individual, to other, that's what really you can do,
and according to teaching, if you do that,
it really happens to you, and also something is happening to others,
that individual and others.
Thank you for that, and let me just share with you,
so for five years, I did that.
I took the highest road possible,
I spoke with peacefulness and openness and kindness,
and softness, and literally took the highest road possible.
As I am the voice of truth,
there's very big things that have happened,
that I have clarification and answers to be able to give.
Now the door has shut, communication is off,
and so that's how much the truth is being blocked.
When you spoke about, you know,
lying and pain and negative behavior,
so the person is in that environment,
kind of bathing in that negativity.
I'm on the other side, waiting,
but the door has to be opened and it's shut.
So for five years, I have taken the highest road possible,
regarding my communication,
and regarding just love, pure, pure, pure,
unconditional love, love, love, love, love.
But now, another party is involved,
and because it's about the truth, I am blocked.
And so that's the detachment,
now I'm in that zone of detachment.
It's so painful, I cannot even show you.
But now also you should, I mean, you did everything.
Everything.
On the other side, really everything.
You have beautiful principles, so trying to, again,
that happens, you just have to run some building,
accept that situation, and don't be kind of like,
staying on that uncomfortable, feeling state.
Let that go and bring more your courage, more love.
Being here is part of it, being in this environment,
and just staying pure and clean and waiting
for a knock on the door, metaphorically, you know?
That's it, really, that's it.
A quarter of us are seeking,
and I heard from other great masters,
when these things happen, you cannot control.
When you don't have the ability to control,
and don't worry, and don't say,
let's worry, let's think of that,
let it go, relax on the present moment.
Relax on the present moment,
generate more love and compassion,
and make good things to everyone and to those individuals
that may, may, they will have some wisdom
and more knowledge so that it's not completely blocked,
and all that.
We've seen those things really in the teaching set.
See, communication has been blocked,
so it's purposely, so it's like screaming on the mountain
and no one's there, it's really treacherous.
Oh, sorry, sorry.
Yeah, but thank you, thank you, thank you.
Okay, one more, then we start.
Maybe you'd like to go up to have some holidays, right?
Kimpo, thank you so much for coming today.
Oh, thank you.
We're very glad I'm here.
I'm right here.
You know, Kimpo, several years ago,
I read what you were teaching us about,
that the Buddha had started now singing and dancing, okay?
She read before the Buddha had done singing and dancing.
And, you know, at that moment, you know,
it became very disheartened because I'm a singer.
And I thought, oh my gosh,
how can I ever become a Buddhist at that time?
And then I thought, well, don't worry about that.
Let's just put that aside for now.
Let's just study and do what we're doing.
So then I bought a book about old Tibetan tales, all right,
old Tibetan stories, and every other story
was about a singing monastic, okay?
Every other story, and I got a little confused.
I'm like, well, the monk is singing,
and they're like, you know,
but I'm confused because monk is, and he's like in bliss,
and he's, you know, he's singing,
and he's, you know, in that beautiful place.
And I'm thinking, but the Buddha said,
no singing and dancing.
So now I'm getting a little confused,
and I think, well, there must be an exception to this rule.
And then, of course, you had said that Mahayana singing is okay
in the right situation, but we don't lose our mindfulness.
So if I am meditating and I feel like singing in my meditation,
that's okay?
This is okay.
That's okay.
Meditation, in particular, for example, in the Vedayana teaching,
when you visualize yourself as a Buddha and a deity,
and then when you are singing or the chanting, those pray,
and you will return yourself.
And that's really fine.
That's good, actually good in the Vedayana teaching.
He said, singing and dancing.
That's what you heard Lama dancing.
Lama dancing and Lama singing those in the teachings.
Because at that time, according to the teaching,
also when you dance and when you're singing,
at that time, you are in a state of that divine mandala,
or the Buddha mandala, and the Vedayana mandala,
then they are all in the country.
Everyone is in a different gesture, in a different mood,
in a different colors, in a different Vedayana teaching, really.
Highly appreciated.
But again, same thing in the teaching, Vedayana teaching.
Same thing, don't lose the awareness.
Or that means, don't lose the mindfulness of the meditation
while you are meditating.
With that, then you are really making big meditually activity,
singing and dancing.
Thank you so much, Kimpo. I'm so relieved.
I'm so happy. Thank you.
Me and you, Ray, me and you.
Yes, yes, okay.
Just this very quick.
So, singing out of devotion, out of bhakti, out of singing,
out of devotion, you know, keeping your mindfulness and awareness,
that's good.
That's good. That's good.
Thank you.
Particularly, when you do those singing and dancing,
I would say you do, I guess, every group is going,
then, of course, you can do.
Otherwise, you do that yourself alone, when you are practicing,
and chanting and singing, and we build a tone, you do that.
But if you are doing group, sangha practice, talk with it,
then do the rest, follow the sangha,
harmony and sangha tune in the same way.
So, it is not just, again,
it's not becoming like distractions to the others.
Even, it's maybe not, it's not distracting your awareness,
your mindfulness, but it could affect you.
So, therefore, keep the same way,
in the way you do your breath practice, it's important.
We're talking about your being,
we're also talking about the pascal,
but also those, for those who have not taken vials,
not just symptom practitioners,
then they have the openness to participate with it.
Oh, yeah, yeah, but then it does, generally, again,
I mean, there is anilore, anilore is saying that,
what I'm saying is, not drinking,
not having the toxicity, those are the vowels,
when you take the opasaka vowels, opasaka vowels.
And so then, opasaka is a Sanskrit word,
which means live practicing, every simple little bit, after that.
Then, you don't do that.
If you do not take that vowels, then, I mean, you're free.
But still, as a being practicing,
the sangha members in the teaching always said
that they could not lose the mindfulness.
And what did the teaching say?
Have you toxicated yourself?
It will lead numerous problems, numerous problems.
Have you really toxicated yourself?
That, I mean, we see, is not just only in Buddhism,
it's in the world.
We see how much troubles are happening.
Even your high education, even your soul rate, wealth, and pain,
would, if you do those things, really, I mean,
become the habit, and then you lose the kind of happiness
and the joy, then kind of like,
even enjoyment of one's own self,
but not just the nature of the practice,
enjoyment of the peace, of the harmony of the family members,
kind of also demolishing that.
So that's what the teaching is.
Lead numerous troubles.
Yeah.
So Buddha, back in the day, didn't have internet,
and all these technologies.
And some of the technologies today are really helpful.
It spreads, even for our own group, it spreads the dharma.
We have videos and YouTube, which spread the teachings,
and that's an example.
We use Twitter and so on.
But, however, that's the same thing as dancing and drinking
when it's used to, when people become mindless from it.
You know, there's people, they become addicted to social media.
And, you know, you can be sitting around the kitchen table,
and, you know, people are all texting different people,
or looking at the news, or whatever,
and that's a lack of mindfulness to me.
So, I mean, when we talk about the intoxication,
I think all of that, you have to step back and say,
"What is it that I'm doing right now?
Is it taking me away from the present moment,
and from the love and compassion?"
You know, because technologies can do that to us.
That's true. That's really true.
Therefore, I think, again, I mean, technology is so good,
as you said, many levels are really good.
But in some other levels, also, it's really very disturbances.
It's disturbances, it's complicated.
This is what the Buddha teaching said,
like, "Poured by the speech, one is gossip."
So, I thought gossip is not just only verbal gossip,
it's also gossips of the "I," "I" visual,
and then the smell, the taste, or really gossip.
So, I think, also, watching so many times on the television,
or the movie, or the YouTube, is really like gossip.
It distracted completely that.
And so, therefore, borderline is what?
I think it really is good to mindfulness, the balance.
Mindfulness, not too much.
A little bit is good, but too much is what they call here.
Too much is too much.
And it really becomes, like, just distracting everything.
Even the premier closeness, again, I heard that,
is really this modern technology, watching the movie,
watching the telephone, and watching,
is just that bond of the family member,
and the loved ones is also kind of exploding by these things,
and just everyone is kind of, like, completely hooked in
to that phone, or that computer, or that television,
and then the rest is completely kind of ignored.
And there's so many other things happening,
and beautiful things. So, therefore, as you said, it's true.
Really, I think it's just like moderation,
and balance, and mindfulness is always important.
Okay?
Yeah, okay.
Your answer just now really feeds into the question I have.
If detachment is really not a struggle for you
when it comes to family members, loved ones,
possessions, material objects,
if for you it's easy to walk away and let go,
it, for me, kind of feels like a good thing,
but there seems to be a lot of judgment surrounding it
as if that makes you a cold, uncaring person
when it's completely the opposite of what you really
are trying to express.
The intention is loving compassion,
but it's like if you're not overly emotional,
then they think you don't care.
So then maybe you have to act as you want to.
That's it. As we talk, as we talk,
I mean, the Buddha says everything is magic,
everything is magic, so you should perform the magic
of acting, of the emotion, but not emotion.
And you can do that really is good.
That's really good.
That's it.
Yeah?
I think.
Excellent.
And not, I mean, you're not completely kind of,
like emotion can't push you down with that emotion,
but you're so strong and kind and accomplished,
because when you're acting that emotion,
that is activity of compassion.
Completion, right?
It's just a kind of mingle with them.
And then help as much as you can.
Help with that, and without too much grasping.
As you said, it's not too bad.
But then, wonderful, I think.
Thank you.
We'll start with your talk, and then we'll come back.
What?
We'll come back.
Let it break.
Five minute break, if you like it.
Then we go over.
We're going to go over a little bit the Mahayana
and the Vedayanas.
Vedayana.
Thank you.
Yeah, five minutes.
Five, 10 minutes.
Five minutes.
Yeah, five minutes.
I'm so sorry.